what is the longest time you've spent
without eating anything
I personally struggled really hard when
we tried fasting for Ramadan with a Mar
a few years back and that was only from
sunrise to sunset now imagine doing it
for five straight days without breaking
your fast once pretty inconceivable
right personally I like my breakfast way
too much see before the invention of
agriculture or refrigeration our
hunter-gatherer ancestors would a lot of
the time experienced long periods of
fasting and according to the internet
most humans are actually biologically
capable of fasting for five to ten days
apparently without much of a problem so
to put this claim to the test
Matt voluntarily decided to take up the
challenge and go five straight days
without eating anything while learning
about the benefits of fasting the human
mind and body we do not recommend that
you try this on your own without
supervision but without further ado
here's what happened to Matt apparently
it's gonna be really challenging and you
have to be super conscious about the
water you're drinking your meditation
routine trip towards the end
it's an insane mental journey it's not
just like oh I'm gonna I'm gonna power
through not being hungry oh this very
quick fun episode you're starving
yourself for five days that's extremely
challenging yeah it sounds easy times
that five it's like I'm just joking it's
like me telling you guys but I think
what you're doing is way harder than a
marathon yeah I think so too yeah guys
like five days is a long time
health-wise that's all we're gonna
medically monitor him and see how far
you can get what does that even mean
it's gonna monitor his heartbeats and
make sure it's not matter oh it's my
last fight until Friday
now we're gonna see Matt like we've
never seen him before
all right it is new on Sunday Mass
Challenge has officially begun I feel
like I'm it instantly in survival mode
right now it is currently 9:50 p.m. been
almost 10 hours since I haven't had food
and to be honest I still feel kind of
full from that meal so I feel good
tomorrow
I'm expecting being more more serious
pain but it's interesting even just
driving around right now I'm noticing
the smell of food times 10 my survival
mechanisms are telling me food is nearby
and then my mind it's like no usually
the first few days are pretty difficult
so I'm sure you're feeling really hungry
at the moment I'm screaming at me right
now I feel like I'm having a child in
there it's just growling it over and
over basically your body's not using
glucose right now for energy you saying
ketone bodies it's a chemical basically
that's forming in the liver so they get
released into the bloodstream to be used
as energy rather than the glucose that
we're getting from food
I love how talking about all this while
I'm doing it yeah 33 hours into my fast
I don't necessarily feel too too
terrible yet but I've heard the second
day within 35 to 48 hours is what it
really really starts to hit and I'm
about to hit that tomorrow and that's
when I think it's gonna really be
painful so I just gotta get over that
hump tomorrow and then I have three more
days after that oh my gosh I tried to
hide it but
[Music]
just give me the sweet taste of dates
and peanut butter chocolate
would you mind say so is that Tuesday
almost two days in and I finally am able
to have the best breakfast in the entire
world my water just like it's had its
food it is literally what I have been
dreaming about my mind goes oh it's not
eat but I'm always reminded that I can
genuinely just cook it over the
exhaustion and like the pain in my
stomach in general is just like
escalating so I'm about to talk to dr.
Jason funk who's an expert that focuses
specifically on intermittent fasting I
perfect things you know became very
interested in nutrition and obesity
because a lot of our diseases that we
face actually related to obesity so you
can type 2 diabetes contact strokes and
cancer the things I realized was that
it's not just what you mean it's also
when you eat and giving your body enough
time to sort of digest the food that you
beat and that's fast
so the 2016 Prize for medicine went to
one of regional describers of this
process called a toffee in essence it's
a rejuvenation process that is
intrinsically very healthy for you
except in the last 30 years and we've
had this onslaught of an advertising
essentially food company they somehow
convinced us that we a you can't go
without food for more than three hours
that's so unhealthy freeze like what if
you're overweight that could be the
healthiest thing that you do does the
more and more I hear about this benefits
just sound crazy
the fact that this has been around for
thousands of years and our ancestors
lived in caves and went out and hunted
didn't necessarily have food every day
so it's just part of being human
it I haven't not muted for 52 hours 52
hours but I feel like I'm getting more
and more energy I'm essentially becoming
the king of the world or I'm just going
insane maybe it's a combination I've
been trying to sleep for like three
hours that is back from raging so the
accommodation just being so tired and
hungry I was expecting it to feel better
right now or at least to be able to
sleep that I'd be so tired that I sleep
like that I came and sleep can't even
another great day of breakfast
oh my favorite Fred and water nice I
don't have this raging headache anymore
but I gotta tell you I'm pretty excited
because last night I started getting
like these heart palpitations I'm know
if it was from nervousness or lack of
food or just a combination but woke up
and I was kind of like in a sweat I know
it's the healthy thing to do but
sometimes I just worry that I'm not
necessarily prepared I thought maybe I
should just take another step at a time
let just gone for a day and then two
days a few months later all right so we
are here at bulletproof glass sky our
partner in all this is introducing me to
a woman named Cassandra and Cassandra
actually lost 150 pounds through
intermittent fasting she's gonna take me
through the lab explain to me what
fasting is all about and hopefully get
me through this hump because right now
I'm just suffering so much more than I
have the past two days yeah and that's
actually a good thing it's because Amy
we're using those bad cells for energy
we're literally eating our own body and
then you basically can renew all
yourself by building new muscle when you
do reach one two three little pricks and
then that's it
point is a normal Oh 2.3 you're your
full fledged nutritional ketosis yeah I
know you feel so much better as it's so
much pain earlier good things are having
a man you're resetting your body or
resetting your blood sugar resetting the
ability for your body to tap into your
fats
and you're decreasing your toxic low all
in my day I'm the king just gotta had a
bulletproof lab and now I think there's
only one thing to do and that's just
chug as much water as possible and
hopefully wake up with just way more
energy
[Music]
Dave four has come and I think it has
worked I'm not even thinking about food
right now and maybe it's like placebo
but I definitely feel like way more then
it's nice it's way better than a three
yeah you don't look like a corpse today
that's a plus
[Music]
like in your head right now honestly the
analogy I would use it's like a race you
know when you're doing a big race some
parts of it are just like so painful and
some other parts are so enjoyable it's
just probably the hardest race I've ever
done because it's five days it makes you
sort of like aware of your body so many
times I feel like in my life I'm just if
I see snap I'll just heat it they're not
even thinking and just eating you know
and as I'm living and breathing in this
body it's literally rebuilding itself
after 26 years of just constant food
very kind strangers who like the seat
discomforts where there's not even a
nice comfort every day it's like four or
five times a day people that are only
know yes--there you walk up to me
because of the shirt I love that back to
the fact of reflection but you have to
force yourself to lack things otherwise
you're just gonna think everything's
just kind of failable available and
you're not gonna appreciate the day's
here Marguerite went out shopping for me
last night I couldn't sleep because I'm
so excited to eat the business taught me
anything it's that eating is just
awesome
you really got appreciated because I
think we have it around everywhere it's
just it's a miracle really yes I got to
tell you this has been most unenjoyable
thing I've done since we started yes
there's contra late last night had these
wonderful french fries big milkshake
there's been five full days since Matt
started fast things finally the time
you've reached the fast and very you're
supposed to break it having something
very like Thomas didn't say to get the
memo
even in pancakes just put it here oh my
god you should not start with this
apparently the experience you get from
tasting things for the first time after
five days I'm not eating anything you
taste food like you're a baby trying for
the first time looks like you forgot
[Music]
I've entered an oasis soon I would have
a bike but I think your stomach is you
know that's a huge bike after a hundred
20 hours of fasting Matt came out with a
fresh perspective on our relationship
with food and the direct correlation
between what we choose to put in our
bodies and our states of mental and
physical health we often forget how
incredible of a machine human body is
and how much it can actually withstand
but it's only through pushing ourselves
far outside of our comfort zones that we
gain the life changing perspectives and
knowledge that helps us evolve and
become better people honestly after
watching Matt complete the challenge we
all started to become more aware of our
own eating habits and it inspired us to
eat more consciously we hope you will
too
thank you so much for watching we just
want to take some time to thank our
sponsor for this video
Skillshare the Skillshare is a service
where you can learn new skills online
such as entrepreneurship photography
writing or even technologies such as
coding there's over 24,000 classes by
experts from around the world in almost
every area of expertise so if you want
to improve or expand your skills in the
comfort of your home Skillshare is the
place to do it
plus if you're interested in getting the
first two months for free you can click
the link in the description below and
the first survivor know people that sign
up are gonna get this free to
promotion signing up is a hundred
percent risk-free for the entire trial
period you'll get two months to try it
out and if you're not happy with it it's
easy to cancel without getting charged
so if you want to learn a new skill and
be a part of the first 500 people they
get the first two months for free make
sure you click the link in the
description below I'll see you next week
[Music]